---
layout: post
category : Programming
tags : [dyslexia, typoglycemia, Javascript]
title: Dsxyliea
---
{% include JB/setup %}

A friend who has dyslexia described to me how she experiences reading. She *can* read, but it takes a lot of concentration, and the letters seems to "jump around".

I remembered reading about [typoglycemia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typoglycemia). Wouldn't it be possible to do it interactively on a website with Javascript? Sure it would.

Feel like making a bookmarklet of this or something? [Fork it](https://github.com/geon/geon.github.com/blob/master/_posts/2016-03-03-dsxyliea.md) on github.

> The Electric Slide is a smooth, dynamic disco-style dance that you can enjoy performing at clubs, weddings, and other social events. Learning it is fun and takes almost no time at all. 

> First, grapevine to the right by taking one step to your right with your right foot, then crossing your left foot to the right, bringing it behind your right foot.  Uncross your feet by taking another step to the right with your right foot.  Bring your left foot to your right foot.  Repeat in the opposite direction. 
> Next, step back with your right foot and bring your left foot to meet it.  Step backward onto your right foot, tap you rleft foot in place, then step forward with your left foot, tapping your right foot to the back.  With your right foot, take a step forward.  While stepping forward, turn your body 90 degrees to the left.  Repeat!

*Source: [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dyslexia)*




<script type="text/javascript" src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/jquery/2.0.3/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">

"use strict";

$(function(){

	var getTextNodesIn = function(el) {
	    return $(el).find(":not(iframe,script)").addBack().contents().filter(function() {
	        return this.nodeType == 3;
	    });
	};

	// var textNodes = getTextNodesIn($("p, h1, h2, h3"));
	var textNodes = getTextNodesIn($("*"));



	function isLetter(char) {
		return /^[\d]$/.test(char);
	}


	var wordsInTextNodes = [];
	for (var i = 0; i < textNodes.length; i++) {
		var node = textNodes[i];

		var words = []

		var re = /\w+/g;
		var match;
		while ((match = re.exec(node.nodeValue)) != null) {

			var word = match[0];
			var position = match.index;

			words.push({
				length: word.length,
				position: position
			});
		}

		wordsInTextNodes[i] = words;
	};


	function messUpWords () {

		for (var i = 0; i < textNodes.length; i++) {

			var node = textNodes[i];

			for (var j = 0; j < wordsInTextNodes[i].length; j++) {

				// Only change a tenth of the words each round.
				if (Math.random() > 1/10) {

					continue;
				}

				var wordMeta = wordsInTextNodes[i][j];

				var word = node.nodeValue.slice(wordMeta.position, wordMeta.position + wordMeta.length);
				var before = node.nodeValue.slice(0, wordMeta.position);
				var after  = node.nodeValue.slice(wordMeta.position + wordMeta.length);

				node.nodeValue = before + messUpWord(word) + after;
			};
		};
	}

	function messUpWord (word) {

		if (word.length < 3) {

			return word;
		}

		return word[0] + messUpMessyPart(word.slice(1, -1)) + word[word.length - 1];
	}

	function messUpMessyPart (messyPart) {

		if (messyPart.length < 2) {

			return messyPart;
		}

		var a, b;
		while (!(a < b)) {

			a = getRandomInt(0, messyPart.length - 1);
			b = getRandomInt(0, messyPart.length - 1);
		}

		return messyPart.slice(0, a) + messyPart[b] + messyPart.slice(a+1, b) + messyPart[a] + messyPart.slice(b+1);
	}

	// From https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/random
	function getRandomInt(min, max) {
		
		return Math.floor(Math.random() * (max - min + 1) + min);
	}


	setInterval(messUpWords, 50);
});


</script>
